hi Victoria BC on the west coast of
Canada is like a lot of smaller cities
in that if you're vegan and you're
living here you're going to get very
familiar with just a few options again
again again the city is unusually
affluent as Canadian cities go it's also
maybe a little bit older than average in
terms of the demographics a lot of
people come to retire he's certainly
going door to door see a lot of
gray-haired people in this city and so
it's not the most dynamic or happening
places not that I'm complaining just the
other day I sat down in a restaurant and
I was the youngest person there and
given that I'm about 100 years old
that's impressive
um downtown Victoria BC as you can see
in in this footage it's preserved
historical architecture this is not
going to be impressive if you're
watching this in Europe or many places
around the world but as Canadian cities
go it's actually quite unusual that
they've held onto a lot of these small
narrow buildings from a hundred years
ago most cities in Canada you're barely
looking at anything that's older than
1975 in terms of architecture now the
disadvantage of that is that many of the
restaurants and coffee shops in downtown
Victoria they really just don't have
much space they're slotted into old
buildings that used to be a haberdashery
150 years ago the Market Square which
I've been showing you the entrance to
here is pretty well known in terms of
tourists and local people there's kind
of a public space a square if you will
where they do have I don't know small
scale public events concerts that kind
of thing I actually have known people
who lived in Victoria for years without
knowing about this place though because
it is a bit hidden there are many
different stairways leading down to this
central public area but once you know
about it this is the area that hides the
kind of most famous most loved best
known vegan restaurant in the city which
is called green cuisine now green
cuisine is so well known for a couple of
reasons for one thing they're an
exception to the rule
mentioned they have a lot of space they
have space where people can hold
meetings and they do vegan groups
environmental groups animal rights
groups even I think some meditation
groups and yoga groups that kind of
thing hold meetings here they have a
space for kids to play
they have enough tables that you can sit
down open up your textbooks and do your
homework or you can sit around with
friends and have a conversation so in
that they're very rare and very valuable
and I think everyone in the vegan
community does value this as a
crossroads as a place where things
happen um on the other hand as you're
seeing here you know it looks a bit like
the prison cafeteria in terms of the
food that's on offer yeah I mean you
know there's variety they normally have
some noodles some sort of rice and
lentil options if you're really cheap a
lot of the people who work in local
office buildings live on the soup they
come in and just get the soup and
cornbread and they have two different
soups each day your choice of a couple
different soups this is all charged
based on weight it can be cheap if
you're very shrewd about how you weight
your food and it can be very expensive
if you're not really paying attention um
the food is just okay I know what the
vegans here who have eaten a hundred
times this restaurant and the truth is
you know they're kind of sick of it
and I know vegans especially people who
are more foodies or entrepreneurs try to
get their own vegan business going who
have said to me that honestly they kind
of hate the food
in the dessert section even though I'm
not really into it I'm just not somebody
who goes out and eats ice cream or you
know goes to sit and eat a muffin and
that sort of thing but if you are vegan
and you've been vegan for years I think
it really is a kind of amazing public
service that this is a restaurant that
will serve you amazing high-quality
baked goods amazing ice cream - by the
way the ice cream is very impressive
I'm not someone who's into ice cream
just I don't care for one way or the
other but it's definitely the most
impressive vegan ice cream I've ever had
in terms of the desserts you know they
make a lot of things that just as a
vegan I assumed I would never taste
again and I'm not really into it but
like I can definitely imagine that would
be very meaningful and important for a
lot of vegans and if you've got kids if
you're raising kids being able to offer
these bates desserts whether you get
them as take out and serve them home or
eat them here at the restaurant i think
that would mean a lot to many people
like I assumed I would never taste a
Nanaimo bar again not that I really love
the namou bars or really care about it
but um you know the fact that there's a
restaurant that has the time and and
really cares to make you a vegan version
of a Nanaimo bar of a chocolate brownie
of those types of old-fashioned baked
goods
you know it's impressive and for a lot
of vegans that'll be nostalgia bringing
back childhood memories of baked goods
that they maybe haven't had in years I
mean I was living in Asia and so you
know I hadn't eaten this stuff in years
for various reasons and also I mean if
you if you pause the video slow down
here at any point if you pause and look
at the ingredients which they list
publicly they're pretty impressive the
ingredients with the baked goods are
impressive and the ingredient for the
ice cream impress me too
I was avoiding filming the faces of
people in the restaurant so I don't
actually show you the seating area and I
don't show you the staff because I think
that's impolite to kind of put a camera
in people's faces but anyway that is
green cuisine right in the middle of
downtown Victoria and in the middle of
the area known as the Market Square
lotus pond
I mean it's another one of these places
it's it's been around forever
it's a tiny Chinese vegetarian
restaurant fit into one of these small
spaces in a hundred-year-old building
it's been renovated but still they've
got this fundamental problem there just
isn't enough space there to have a
conversation and I mean I've lived in
China I've lived in other place in Asia
too if you are really homesick for
Chinese food
this might appeal to you but I've got to
say they serve this kind of strange
Canadian version of Chinese food that
doesn't taste like anything you've ever
had in China the family running the
place or who owned the place at least
they're they're from Taiwan they're
Taiwanese Buddhist vegetarians and
everything is vegan the whole restaurant
is strictly vegan but as you can see I
mean the prices on the menu are actually
pretty high it isn't the place you would
take someone for a date it isn't really
a place you'd sit never conversations
there are a lot of disadvantages
the most expensive place on this very
short list is called be love again be
love is slotted into a really small
space you can't have a conversation
there you can't hang out there but I
have twice gone at dinner at this place
because I was in circumstance once with
a professor where I had to go somewhere
vegan that was somewhat fancy or
luxurious and be loved is pretty much
the only option there are a lot of
strange ironies in terms of local vegans
and their attitudes towards this place
they used to be more vegan than they are
so in general a lot of people in the
vegan community here in Victoria
actually hate the owners and hate this
place they they formerly had no eggs on
the menu and then at one point they made
a kind of public announcement that they
were gonna add eggs to their breakfast
menu and you know vegans freaked out and
said how can you do this and sent in
letters of complaints made negative
comments on their Facebook page and this
sort of thing and you know I think the
owners of the restaurant they deleted
all the negative comments and there was
some controversy when I was talking
about this with a couple of vegans
basically like a group meeting of eats
here in Victoria I raised in response I
said oh yeah you know um but you know
this other restaurant that serves
breakfast here John's place and
immediately they just spontaneously said
oh yeah I love that place they have such
positive memories of this other this
other meat-eating restaurant called
John's place I said yeah but you know
everyone loves this other restaurant
called John's place because they have
one vegan option on the menu and you
know we all hate belove apparently
because they're in general vegan but
they now have several items in the menu
that are only Pro vegetarian or not
really vegan they have some things that
contain honey as I said they've become
less vegan over time now adding eggs and
some other things the menu from my
perspective again the real practical
problem is that if you're spending that
much money to sit in a restaurant you
probably want a place where you can sit
down and have a conversation whether
you're going on a date or
hanging out with friends or whether you
want to open up your books and work on
your homework which is my bias I
normally have my textbooks with me and
if I'm sitting down to catch a bite to
eat somewhere I don't want to have to
rush out as quickly as possible but look
that's about it Victoria BC is not that
biggest city um it's not that much going
on if you're vegan and you live here the
three options I've just mentioned you'll
know right away um in downtown Victoria
there are a couple of Mexican
restaurants that each have one or two
vegan options in the menu I do not think
they're a good option I do not think
they're good quality and again they have
nowhere to sit they're really slotted
into into buildings that are too small
for them and they've done a poor job
renovating them so this is really a
recurring problem in Victoria there is
one Japanese restaurant called kisi KO
and that's run by an authentic elderly
Japanese couple and they offer a vegan
bento box
it's very rare the vast majority of
Japanese restaurants have absolutely
nothing vegan on the menu and also a lot
of them are just not authentically
Japanese in terms of their taste whether
that's because there are more Chinese
more Korean or just run by Canadians
with a Canadian idea of what sushi and
Japanese food is supposed to be about
but kissa KO in Elk Bay they do have
reliable and quite sophisticated vegan
option the menu every day but it's the
same problem again that is a tiny tiny
restaurant can't really have a
conversation there I can't hang out
there if it's completely empty if you go
at four o'clock in the afternoon or
something in between lunch and dinner
maybe you can take up the restaurant but
again in that smaller space sitting at
these tiny tables kind of like an
old-fashioned donut shop not the most
comfortable situation to be in so look
for the foreseeable future hate it or
love it I've got to say Victoria BC the
vegan scene is dominated by just one
restaurant Green cuisine I think the
greatest strength green cuisine is
really in their bakery I wish they tried
to develop more as a base
curry and I think they have some
weaknesses in other areas but it's a
place where you could sit down and have
a meeting and many groups do you often
see kind of group events being booked
there and posters on the wall
for events happening there and also even
if you just want to sit there and have a
coffee and a muffin which is not what
I'm into personally but a lot of people
are it's wonderful to have a space where
you can do that that's not a Tim Hortons
that's not a Starbucks and that's
fundamentally a positive Pro vegan
institution